.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Han Boetes <han@fluxbox.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the
.\" above copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL
.\" WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR
.\" PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
.\" TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
.\" PERFORMANCE OF THIS DOCUMENTATION
.\"
.Dd May  4, 2004
.Dt FBSETBG 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm fbsetbg
.Nd "set a background/wallpaper"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm fbsetbg
.Bk -words
.Op Fl fctaFCTA Ar wallpaper
.Op Fl uU Ar wallpapersetter
.Op Fl bB Ar fbsetrootoptions ...
.Op Fl rR Ar path
.Op Fl l
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a wrapper that tries to find a suitable background-setting app and
then tries to set the wallpaper using that app. You don't have to
configure fbsetbg. It just uses the first app it can find.
.Pp
Furthermore it supports remembering the last set wallpaper so you don't
have to edit the style or init-file to change the wallpaper.
.Pp
It aims to provide clear error messages in a window that make debugging
problems easy.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f Ar file
Set fullscreen wallpaper.
.It Fl c Ar file
Set centered wallpaper.
.It Fl t Ar file
Set tiled wallpaper.
.It Fl a Ar file
Set maximized wallpaper, preserving aspect (if your bgsetter doesn't
support this option fbsetbg falls back to
.Fl f
).
.It Fl u Ar wallpapersetter
Use specified wallpapersetter, use no argument to forget.
.It Fl b Ar fbsetrootoptions
Forward the options to fbsetroot.
.It Fl r Ar directory
Set random wallpaper from a directory.
.It Fl F , C , T , A , U , B , R
Same as the uncapsed option but without remembering.
.It Fl l
Set previous wallpaper. Or, if the random feature was last used, set
another random wallpaper from the same directory.
.It Fl i
Display usefull information about best wallpapersetter found.
.It Fl p
Display some usefull tips.
.It Fl h
Display a help message.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "~/.fluxbox/lastwallpaper" -compact
.It Pa ~/.fluxbox/lastwallpaper
.El
In this file the wallpaper you set will be stored, for the
.Fl l
option.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.Pp fbsetbg supports the following environmental variables:
.Ar wpsetters
Wallpapersetters to use.
.Pp
.Ar DISPLAY
The display you want to set the wallpaper on.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Pp
To use
.Ar feh
as wallpapersetter and set
.Ar wallpapper.jpg
from the current directory as wallpaper.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ wpsetters=feh fbsetbg wallpaper.jpg
.Ed
.Pp
Recall the last set wallpaper on display
.Ar :0.0
with the stored options.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ DISPLAY=:0.0 fbsetbg -l
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr fbsetroot 1 ,
.Xr fluxbox 1
.Sh ONLINE DOCUMENTATION:
Much more extensive documentation for
.Nm
is provided on:
http://www.xs4all.nl/~hanb/software/fbsetbg/fbsetbg.html
.Sh BUGS
.Nm
is not foolproof.
.Sh AUTHOR
The author of fbsetbg is Han Boetes <han@fluxbox.org>
